[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, a practice
that I do for example,
comes out of the
Tibetan tradition,
the Dzogchen tradition.
And one of the practices that
I do is to lie on my back
and look at the sky.
And I see this vast sky,
and then every now and then,
a plane goes over, a bird
flies into my vision,
the clouds come and clouds go.
And there's the sky, and all
these things are in the sky,
but the sky is just there
and they come and go.
Then the next thing
is I see all that
as a mirror of consciousness.
And consciousness is the sky.
And into the sky arise phenomena
and they come and they exist
and they dissolve and they
turn into something else.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, it's easy to have
a phenomena out there,
but then the phenomena of
the experience of the body.
The phenomena of
your own existence.
These start to be just
arising moments of thought
and passing moments
of thought, and you
keep coming back into the sky.
Until pretty soon, the
phenomena aren't arising to you,
the phenomena are
an internal matter.
You're just at rest in being.
And internally,
phenomena are arising,
transforming,
changing, dissolving,
and there's no clinging to it.
It's there and it's not there.
You don't even care.
And the equality
of awareness, it's
like a feeling of total presence
in which the trees are present
and the wind is present
and our minds are present,
and it's all part of one
presence and that presence is.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's like when you go from one
of those places to another,
it's not like your
ego disappears
or your soul disappears.
It's just that you change
perspective about them.
It's like you thought you
were a star, pull back,
and so now you're
lying on your back
looking up at the Milky Way.
Of millions of stars of which
you are just another one.
And I'm living my life, and when
people say, thank you so much,
and I say, it was
nothing personal.
I mean, I didn't do it for
you, I did it because I do it.
It's wonderful to have
the issue of gratitude
if you don't get trapped in it.
But you can use
gratitude to poor me
and wonderful you to get it.
It's the awareness and watching
the freshness of the creativity
every moment, including your
life and what you're doing
and who you think you are
and what you're about.
If you're not
standing in the place
where you're seeing
your own life
as your ultimate creative
act, come on a prayer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]